hey guys welcome to my channel this is
the time of the year when I sit down and
thank 2017 for whatever happened and I
start planning for 2018 so if you want
to know how much you can accomplish you
in a year with great planning please
continue watching this video so the
first thing they need to start with is
sit down and thank yourself for whatever
happened in 2017 thank yourself for your
small accomplishments thank yourself for
your big accomplishments this is super
important and sometimes I keep
forgetting celebrating small victories
small events and this is really
important for a brain to you know mark
this point like hey I've done that let's
move on the second thing you need to do
is actually understand that there are so
many things that had happened within a
year and with good planning you can be a
completely different person in just 12
months now remember yourself in December
2016 when I think about myself a year
ago I was a completely different person
with completely different things on my
mind and there's so many things that
have changed you into 2017 so for
example I wrote my first book and my
book is about getting into American
universities with full financial aid and
it has my whole story of getting into
the University and it has a plan for
anyone who wants to do the same that was
my number one accomplishment number two
I got my green card this is like a huge
event just imagine it just happened all
within a year I applied in March and I
got it in September the third thing I
actually scored a hundred thousand
subscribers on my English Channel
another great thing guys today we're
celebrating a hundred fifty thousand
subscribers on my lingual marina channel
and I scored two hundred thousand
subscribers on my Russian channel
which is so exciting I cannot even
imagine that I didn't have this channel
two years ago I started it in spring
2016 just realize how many things can
happen within a year so what you need to
do is give yourself a theme or a topic
for the next year for the year of 2017
my topic was keeping balance because I
realized I'm working too much sometimes
and I forget about things that really
matter like my health my relationships
and sometimes I could have spent like 12
hours per day working on my company I
know it's super important but it's also
very important for an entrepreneur to
keep your brain fresh 2017 was about
concentrating on that stuff and I
learned to stop worrying and if you have
the same problem like if you worry a lot
about too many things I would highly
recommend a book about Dale Carnegie and
he teaches you to stop worrying and
start living I will leave a link below
super helpful book after I read it I
realized that stress connected with
daily job with studies it doesn't really
matter because it can have really
serious consequences on your health and
this is what I learned in 2017 when
something happened I just sat down and I
thought it's this crisis or whatever
happened to earth me having animal
problems with my sugar levels or
problems with my heart in the next
couple of years and the answer was
always no and I just tried to relax and
I think this is also another great
accomplishment of 2017 now regarding the
planning of 2018 first thing just ask
yourself how do you see yourself in a
year when you sit down next year and you
think about the transformation that
happened to you like where do you want
to see yourself but a very important
thing but don't be too strict to
yourself don't tell yourself like by
December 2018 I'm a top-selling actor or
I don't know like I own billion dollars
if it's too optimistic or too hard to
achieve then when you're not achieving
that you're just depressing yourself
nobody created this rule for you you
created it yourself and then because you
haven't lived up to your own standards
you're depressed this cannot happen to
you
like put this factor concentrate on just
two things you know I've
we listen to Tim Ferriss lecture and he
talked about improving things in his
life and he said when I tried to
concentrate on more than two things I
felt really depressed because what do
you think I'm not doing well my studies
I'm I live in a country where I don't
want to live my English is not that good
and when you have too many things at a
time on your mind you just feel
depressed and you stop working
concentrate on two things that you can
improve in the year 2018 think of the
first two steps that you're gonna take
because another cool thing that I've
noticed is that when you try to plan
every single step like hundred steps
ahead this doesn't really work because
there are so many circumstances to
change and for example in my case like
okay I want to be a better filmmaker yes
I started my youtube blog yes someday I
want to shoot something more
professional but what can I do right now
I can start a filmmaking course which is
just six weeks okay and this is my first
step I don't really know how I'm gonna
get to this creating my own movie thing
but I know that there are certain steps
that I can take right now and see where
life takes me regarding those two goals
that you were setting for yourself make
sure they're clear enough and that you
understand how to get there for example
if you want to study in an American
University you should tell yourself okay
by the end of 2018 I should have a list
of universities that provide for example
full financial aid I should have my GMAT
results and I should have my topher
results this is a pretty clear goal if
you just tell yourself oh I want to
study in the States with a financial aid
and I need to be in the States by
December 2018 this wouldn't really work
again because you don't have a clear
plan so have this clear goal and two
first steps that you're gonna take and I
would personally connect a second goal
or maybe like a third goal with
something material buying something that
you really really want because if one of
your goals is just earning more money
this wouldn't get you anywhere but if
you need money for travel or if you want
to go abroad and study language if you
want to go to an english-speaking
country for like a two week course then
it's around like eight hundred dollars
or six hundred dollars and tell yourself
okay in 2018 I want to find a side job
maybe start a YouTube channel and
you know earn more money because I have
this clear goal which costs $800 and I
want to work towards it super super
important guys please do not forget to
always spray yourself and always thank
yourself for doing things for not being
lazy you know because when something is
going well and you're praising yourself
you're motivating yourself to do them
more I noticed that with my English
language when my level was not really
high but it was higher than my parents
level they kept telling me that I'm
great in English and that motivated me
to move higher and higher so don't
forget to praise yourself don't forget
to thank yourself I hope you guys
enjoying this Christmas holiday San
Francisco is absolutely beautiful super
cold but it feels like Christmas and if
you are preparing for your exams or if
you're working on a university
application I would highly recommend the
new service that we just launched that's
another accomplishment of my team and I
the service called fluent Express and
this is where you can get your English
texts corrected instantly by native
speaker this is something I would use
for a personal statement or for a
commendation letter guys my question to
you write down your accomplishments in
2017 and when you're writing it please
feel happy for yourself and feel honored
that you've accomplished that again
thank you so much for watching this vlog
if you're not yet subscribed there's a
red button please hit it and like this
video if you liked it because by the
number of likes I can tell whether this
topic was interested whether you enjoyed
watching this or not thank you so much
again and I will see you in the next
vlog in the new year
bye
[Music]